pornography some people believe it
should be available and accessible
without stigma others think well it's
not for me but it's fine for other
people in certain situations and a few
people think it should be banned
completely oh did I say pornography
sorry I meant abortion our main story
tonight is abortion and yes yes we have
talked about it before last time we
looked at the way abortion laws in
America have in many places made access
to abortion difficult as clinics all
over the country have shut down but
tonight we're going to focus on the
exact opposite of an abortion clinic
something called a crisis pregnancy
center facilities whose primary purpose
is to talk women out of terminating a
pregnancy something they don't often
make that clear instead running
friendly-looking ads like this before
you make the decision about a pregnancy
that comes at a less-than-perfect time
get jelly on the belly come to sunrise
woman's clinic a clinic where nurses
specialize in early pregnancy options
okay jelly on the belly is a pretty
childish way to describe an important
medical procedure I'm not sure that I
would trust a doctor that referred to
colonoscopies as looking for cooties in
the bootys second one of the early
pregnancy options that you won't get at
sunrise woman's clinic is an abortion
but that can be hard to tell from their
vague name and marketing and that
actually happens a lot with cpc's take
the center for pregnancy choices in
Mississippi it sounds like a welcoming
place the website even has links labeled
thinking abortion and thinking parenting
and it was founded by a woman named
Barbara Bevers whose very name sounds
like that of a sassy mother in a TV show
about a family of beavers it would be
called hot damn and it would be
absolutely delightful but once you're
inside her CPC you will find that it is
vehemently against any choice that is
not carrying a pregnancy to term in fact
just listen to Barbara explain where she
stands on abortion you're deceiving
yourself if you say you can kill your
baby and it'd be good for you that's
just deception that's not true
it doesn't it doesn't register with
reality
mamas women are not made that way women
are made to protect in a garden to to
die for their babies not their babies to
die for them holy
let me be perfectly clear here Barbara
the only females made to die for their
babies are Pacific salmon they lay
thousands of eggs and then die after
spawning you're welcome tune in next
week for more of Johnny O's fish facts
wildlife wonders and abortion and
centers like that one are proliferating
there are now 2,700 pregnancy centers in
America compared to less than 1,700
abortion providers and the discrepancy
is even worse in certain states
Mississippi for example has one abortion
clinic and 38 crisis pregnancy centers
so if they are that prevalent people
should absolutely know what they are and
look if you believe abortion is immoral
you are of course allowed to set up a
center dedicated to convincing women of
that but what is happening with cpc's is
that way too often women with unplanned
pregnancies are being actively misled
while trying to access healthcare and
cpc's seem happy to have women confuse
them for abortion clinics just listen to
Abby Johnson an anti-abortion activist
addressing a conference for one of the
largest CPC organizations we want to
appear neutral on the outside the best
call the best client you ever get is one
that thinks they're walking into an
abortion clinic okay those are the best
clients that could ever walk in your
door or call your Center the ones that
think you provide abortions Wow
normally the strategy pretend you're an
abortion clinic is not actually a great
marketing stunt although I am pretty
sure that RadioShack would have tried
that if they thought of it sorry we
don't actually perform abortions here
but what I've got you it can I interest
you in a gently used USB cord or a
Microsoft Zune they come in brown and
the efforts to conceal their true intent
takes many forms starting with the name
many cpc's have the word choice in their
names like choices women's center
informed choices medical clinic and all
these other
CBC's all of which feature the words
choice in their name and I know that
almost every product does a bit of
misleading advertising no one would buy
Pepsi if they were honest and called it
sad coke or you wouldn't buy a
mini-cooper if they admit it they were
just clown cars for regular people and
while it should be easy to clarify any
misconceptions with a simple phone call
that can be difficult just listen to
what happens when one woman called a CPC
for information and keep in mind when
you listen that the center absolutely
under no circumstances ever provides
abortions so cpc's can lure women to
meet with them on false pretenses
basically they are catfishing them a
term that was coined because of course
catfish are constantly trying to trick
women who are out of their league into
them that's right that's right
you thought we were out of fish facts
you were wrong we have millions because
we're talking about abortion and cpc's
can even intercept people's internet
searches and routinely
buy Google Keyword ads for phrases like
abortion and abortion clinic and
frequently they'll go even further and
try and physically intercept people
because they often locate themselves as
close as possible to abortion clinics
for instance one abortion provider in
Hartford ran into some real problems
with a similarly named CPC when they
deliberately located just 20 feet from
them this woman who we aren't
identifying speaks candidly about the
difficult decision she had to make after
becoming pregnant after a rape I didn't
want the baby it was a lot on my soul
eventually she decided to seek the
services of the Hartford GYN she
initially went for counseling and she
can remember how the clinic's neighbor
Hartford Women's Health tried to offer
unsolicited counsel as well they was
trying to tuck me over the end and I was
like you know
you making me feel bad now clearly
that's absolutely horrible and incidents
like that was so routine that the
abortion clinic in question in an
attempt to keep its clients from going
to the wrong place
painted the ramp outside their door
bright yellow like The Wizard of Oz
which is actually a properly because
that movie too involves a young woman
getting stalked several times by idiots
bothering her with their own
issues and she just tries to get what
she needs to go and if cpc's
can't get a physical location right next
to an abortion clinic they have another
trick up their sleeve and that is busses
that can literally park outside and try
and tempt women in many cpc's operate
mobile clinics with the help of
organizations like save the stalks a
name which really should immediately set
off red flags oh let me go into this pan
and talk to someone who thinks babies
are brought by a deformed pigeon on
stilts and to listen to them tell it
their vans are an absolute joy to be
inside these vehicles fit in one parking
spot it'll go right at the door of an
abortion clinic every store bus is a
bathroom on it to be able to do a
pregnancy test built-in refrigerator the
seats are all leather this massage chair
this thing is really good for the back
we've had a lot of good reviews from the
pregnant women on the massage chair
look if someone wanted to spend their
time in the back of a plush van and then
be told not to have an abortion
they just the lead singer of creed
and once once cpc's have women inside
their building or van they can employ
every tactic in the book to try and get
them to change their mind literally
every tactic in the book because
heartbeat international which has 1,400
affiliates in the US has this handbook
with suggested scripts featuring some
nonsense information it suggests telling
pregnant women that 35% of suicidal
behaviors among women may be
attributable to abortion which is
it also says that abortion
almost doubles the risk of breast cancer
which is also and while in
reality abortion is far less medically
dangerous than carrying a child to term
that hasn't stopped some CPC employees
from saying things like this if people
die due to an abortion later on a lot of
times they're finding parts of the fetus
in like the lungs or the heart oh yeah
yeah that that happens a lot of times
doesn't it which is why you're so often
reading the obituaries and see Sarah
Mitchell passed away last week at the
age of 34 after she got baby dicks right
in the heart it happens all the time
we're tired of reading it and the thing
is that medical advice can actually look
pretty legitimate because cpc's often
have the trappings of a health care
facility increasingly they offer free
ultrasounds which can sound appealing
it's free but often they're not
performing them so much for medical
reasons as for emotional manipulation
just watch this Christian Broadcasting
Network profile of women who give free
ultrasounds in this bus that parks
outside abortion clinics just watch as
they describe their technique they
usually start crying as we begin and
cover their eyes and as we're continuing
the ultrasound they start peeking out
between their fingers and we called it a
baby and we call them mom and look your
baby's sucking his thumb oh he has the
hiccups she and all who operate the
ultrasound machine will spend as much
time as needed with the new moms she
stays on that table until where until
she she decides she
baby if that isn't coercive enough which
it comfortably is technicians at other
clinics have written messages uninvited
on the ultrasound like hi mommy and
daddy and if you were gonna write an
unrequested ultrasound message at least
be creative about it right on totally
pooping in here or I ate my twin or
please don't put this on Facebook
everyone hates that finally see pcs can
and have misled women about how pregnant
they are or have delayed their decision
to have an abortion past the point where
it's possible watch as one doctor
describes a case of a woman who came to
her in her third trimester having been
under the care of a CPC that gave her
terrible advice I told her that she
didn't have to worry she didn't have to
rush there was no time issue because
they do abortion in New York City up
until term which is patently ridiculous
so when she came to me she was too
pregnant she had her partner had
abandoned her she had no money she had
three other children she had no
intention of being pregnant and when she
became pregnant during the time of her
pregnancy she'd been using drugs and
alcohol she very responsibly went to end
the pregnancy and now I had to tell her
you're gonna have a baby
no that is obviously heartbreaking and
here's the thing for all the lengths
that cpc's will go to to prevent
abortions many of them don't do a key
thing that would really help that and
that's give women access to birth
control in fact that script from before
instructs cpc's
to tell people condoms are ineffective
in preventing pregnancy and some
operators like Barbara beavers are hard
skeptics condoms don't they don't
prevent even used correctly there's like
a 20 percent failure rate even used
correctly there's a relatively high
failure rate of condoms I thought oh I
don't think that's good I don't think
that's correct I would question it so
I'll find some of our data what what are
you laughing
Barbara is it because deep down even you
Barbara beavers know that your data is
complete horseshit because the fact is
if you want fewer abortions you should
love birth control you should be filling
Pez dispensers with birth control pills
you should be giving condoms out to
trick-or-treaters and our UD earrings
out as hostess gifts birth control
should be your favorite thing in the
whole world but of course many of these
cpc's are about much more than just
abortion they're about controlling
women's sexual behavior
many are church-affiliated like the
Pregnancy Care Center in Fort Pierce
Florida which was started by a Catholic
priest he's called father Thomas ight
now now I don't want to say that he had
a condescending view of women but watch
him describe the links that he would go
to to lure them away from entering an
abortion clinic I remember the time when
they had the fence up in front of the
place they put the fence up I decided
that I would talk to him and over the
fence by bringing a ladder and getting
on top of the ladder and talking to and
so of course that generated a 911
because I was now talking down
[Laughter]
literally and figuratively talking down
to them I made it clear there are many
vessels for the purpose of giving birth
and nothing else I don't actually even
see them as for humans that's why what I
do is funny I break myself up I'm not
I'm a chuckle monster that's priceless
now quick sidenote about that particular
priest not long after that was filmed he
admitted to violating the boundaries of
chastity with the woman who accused him
of molesting her for two years during
what was supposed to be an exorcism and
some of the details in her allegations
are insane he kissed the corners of her
mouth stroked her legs breasts and
thighs breasts her face laid his body on
top of hers and frequently explained
full passionate kisses as blowing the
Holy Spirit into her let us be clear if
you are doing anything that can be
described as blowing the Holy Spirit
into someone you are very much doing
kissing wrong and unless your idea of an
exorcism is making the woman burp a lot
you're also doing exorcisms wrong as
well which could be why it took you two
years at this point at this point you
might be wondering how you can give
women ultrasounds and inaccurate medical
information and not break the law well
cpc's are very careful to stop just
short of the line where they will be
regulated as health care providers and
this offers them numerous advantages for
example they're generally not subject to
HIPAA a federal law requiring that
patients information be kept private
which is frankly not ideal in a setting
where such sensitive information is
being shared and if you are not already
angry enough at this point the
government actually funds cpc's you are
paying for them they they can get
federal funding and sixteen states use
taxpayer money to fund them directly and
they will say they will say that they're
fervently held beliefs can justify some
of the methods that you've seen tonight
and they might point to the assistance
that some centers provide to young
mothers like parenting classes and free
diapers which is great if those women
want
be mothers although as Abby Johnson
advised CPC operators in that conference
he saw earlier that that help can be
surprisingly limited if I want to open a
Pregnancy Center I would not have
pregnancy items past six months
are we running a charity are we running
a place where we want women to become
self-sufficient self-sufficient right
have maternity clothes have those things
available for the women while they're
pregnant but cut them off Wow
so the basic argument there is we're
just not in a position where we can take
care of a baby forever we don't have the
time or the resources so we're choosing
not to make that commitment right now so
which I would say the tactics that cpc's
often use are disingenuous and predatory
and it's absolutely critical that people
understand that but they really don't
watch how one local news outlet covered
the opening of a CPC in the gigantic
care net Network Schuylkill County is
one of the only counties in our area
that does not have a Planned Parenthood
but that doesn't mean teens don't have a
place to go for help Karen out of
Schuylkill County recently expanded to
two facilities
one for parents and one for expecting
mothers under the age of 21 no don't say
that because if you want all the options
available to you those two are not
remotely the same that's like saying hey
our town doesn't have a youth sports
league but we do have a large scary man
in sweatpants who will chase your kids
around
ptoo operates out of a van and and
people need to understand this because
right now it is way too easy for a
religious organization to disguise its
true nature establish a CPC and provide
women with dangerously poor information
about one of their most important health
choices and I can prove to you how easy
it is you may remember back in season
two I established the Church of Our Lady
of Perpetual exemption with my lovely
wife Wanda Jo Oliver
well last week we filed paperwork in New
York to create a new nonprofit Our Lady
of choosing choice to set up our own
crisis pregnancy center so where will
our clinic be that depends where are you
right now because our clinic has wheels
and we will travel behold behold our new
[Music]
[Applause]
look
you know that there is absolutely no way
that I would open this alone right
[Applause]
how do you wonder Joe how'd you get to
you oh thank you so much now now in this
band we are allowed to tell women
whatever dubious information comes into
our heads isn't that right my wonder
that's right my John tell women if they
get an abortion it'll make a ghost baby
that'll hug your hoo-ha forever
that is spooky ER but what else do you
say wonder getting an abortion turns
your breast milk into kombucha that's
weird
it is weird one more facts for the
people at home one gasps you're an
abortion your vagina feels sharp like an
Egyptian - wow that's a striking image
these are all things that we can say
legally required in New York chef Amy
training and all to use this ultrasound
machine wow that's absolutely terrifying
well in that case let's get some jelly
on some bellies I got great I got red
berry I'm gonna really just gummy bears
[Laughter]
we're told that what the joke I've got
to ask you something it's a tricky
question how do you feel about birth
control
I'm glad you asked you know I do give
out condoms but I tell people there's
zero percent effective you too
how's that possibly cut the tips off
these suckers well lets you blow the
holy spirit right on through Wow Wow
look the best part is just like our
church we are tax exempt and we could be
eligible for government funding praise
discretionary budgets what don't cry
don't cry the point is this is all
perfectly legal and there is absolutely
nothing stopping us from parking outside
an abortion clinic tonight and
haranguing people first thing in the
morning and frankly they're really
should be
[Applause]